Well, today's text is a partial quote of Hebrews 13.7, why don't we read the entire verse?
And then we'll discuss its importance to those to whom Paul was writing, but also to us
today.
As Hebrews 13.7, remember those who are taking the lead among you who have spoken the word
of God to you, and as you contemplate how their conduct turns out, imitate their faith.
Now to whom was Paul writing?
Well, to the Hebrew or Jewish Christians who belonged to the congregation in Jerusalem.
Was it important for them to pay attention to those taking the lead?
Well, consider.
Paul wrote this around 61 CE.
So that was about five years before Jerusalem was surrounded by Roman armies and then later destroyed.
Now who were taking the lead in the Jerusalem congregation at that time?
The May 15, 1997 watchtower pages 16 and 17 explains that it appears the governing body,
composed of the remaining members of the apostles and older men, were likely very active in Jerusalem right up until 66 CE.
So surely they would be among those taking the lead to whom Paul referred.
Now what things could the brothers remember about the faith and the conduct of the apostles and older men?
You know, certainly they could remember the words and the example of the apostle Peter.
Though Peter was arrested and beaten, he, along with the rest of the apostles, told the authorities,
we must obey God as ruler rather than men.
And Peter remained active for the rest of his life encouraging the brothers.
They could remember the loyalty and the courage of the apostle James,
who hered a grip of the first, put to death by the sword in 44 CE.
Remembering the loyalty and the courage of these brothers would have been benefit to the brothers in the congregation,
especially as the end of the Jewish system drew near.
Well now how can we apply Paul's exhortation today?
As a Bachelors comments mentioned, one way to remember and imitate the example of our faithful members of the governing body.
And just as members of the Jerusalem congregation, we at Bethel have an extraordinary privilege and a unique opportunity
to see the faith and observe the conduct of our brothers on the governing body.
And today by means of J.W. broadcast, our brothers around the world actually see members of the governing body.
They hear them speak the word of God to them and they can observe their conduct.
And also we have the life stories of former members of the governing body who faithfully served Jehovah for decades until they received their heavenly reward.
Let's just remember for them and what they told us how their conduct turned out.
The first is TJ Sullivan.
Now, brother Sullivan faithfully served on the governing body until his death in 1974.
In his life story in the watchtower of August 15, 1965, brother Sullivan related what happened at Madison Square Garden in June 1939.
Brother Ruthford was giving a talk when a demon controlled mob tried to break up that meeting.
A number of brothers were falsely arrested.
Listen to his comments.
Brother Ruthford insisted on going to the police station immediately.
I was privileged to drive along with him on that occasion.
Driving through from the Madison Square Garden to the police station, we saw demonstrated the mad fury of the mob
and the restraining power of our God to preserve his people.
At the police station, we had to struggle through the mob to get in.
So after assisting the brothers and on leaving the police station, brother Sullivan added.
On our leaving, the same demonic mob was still outside.
They tried to force their way into the car and bar its progress.
It was necessary for some of us to ride on the running boards to keep the crowds from tearing the doors open.
What courage, what boldness, brothers, brother and brother and Sullivan display.
Will we need to display such courage in the days ahead?
Well now let's remember brother George Ganges, another former member of the governing body.
His life story appeared in the October 15, 1966 watchtower.
Have you ever felt inadequate for assignments you were given?
Brother Ganges related what happened when he gave his first six minute talk.
He was gripped with fear and could hardly finish, but he never quit.
He also said a wonderful example in his love for the meetings.
He prayed to God to not permit him to miss any meetings and for 45 years up to that point he had not.
He said to me meeting with the brothers is one of life's greatest pleasures and a source of encouragement.
I love to be at the kingdom hall among the first and leave among the last if possible.
I feel an inward joy when talking with God's people.
When I am among them, I feel at home with my family in a spiritual paradise.
Brother Ganges finishes a earthly course in 1994 at 98 years old.
Next we remember brother Carl Klein.
He related on one occasion brother Rutherford gave him a blunt reproof.
The next time he saw Carl, he cheerily said hello Carl, but because of still feeling hurt,
Carl just muttered a greeting.
Brother Rutherford continued, Carl, watch out, the devil's after you.
Embarrassed, he replied, oh, there's nothing brother Rutherford, but he knew better and repeated his warning.
That's all right, just watch out, the devil's after you.
He asked we should remember these words of brother Klein because they're Bible-based.
Never do we want to allow place for the devil by harboring resentment.
In January 2001 at the age of 95, Carl Klein faithfully completed his earthly course.
Next we remember brother Dan Sidleck.
Brother Sidleck's life story appeared in the June 1, 1985 watchtower.
We were always encouraged when brother Sidleck would start his morning worship
with a hearty, it's good to be alive to serve the true and living God, Jehovah.
A story reveals why brother Sidleck loved life, loved God's people, loved Jehovah.
He wrote, throughout life's experiences, there has been the ever-sustaining power of God's friendship.
He added, even at this moment, share joy overwhelms me when I read the Psalmist words in Psalm 33,
happy the nation that has Jehovah for its God, the people that he chose as his estate,
that your friendship be over us, Jehovah, as we rest our expectations on you.
Brother Sidleck finished his earthly course in April 2006 after having served at Bethel for nearly 60 years.
Yes, brothers, we do well to remember both the current and former members of the governing body.
As was the case with the Jewish Christians to whom Paul wrote, we too are approaching the end of a system of things.
And so we need to imitate the faith of our brothers who take the lead among us,
and that will help us endure to the end, whether that end is the end of our life now,
or the end of this wicked system of things.